Alright. I got a little troubleshooting
video here for you and my student is
saying that it cannot connect or doesn't
see the tables being created in the H2
database. Nine times out of ten, I do see
this one a lot, but nine times out of ten,
it is a problem with the connect string.
We're running the H2 in-memory database
and we just happened to bring up a wrong
connect string. So a lot of times that's
buffered in my browser so I don't run
into that. But the default Spring Boot
database is at where are my notes here jdbc:h2:mem: and then testdb.
That's normally the connect string that
we want to use. And in this case, the
student sent me a screenshot and he did
have the correct connect URL in there. So
let's go ahead and take a look at his
code. I am here in IntelliJ and we are
going to come in. I already checked it out
of GitHub. So he sent me his repository.
I've forked it and checked it out to my
local file system so I'm going to mount
it inside of IntelliJ. I'll get in my
temp directory here. And here it is right
here the spring5 project. So let's go
ahead and this was a Maven project. I
think I double checked that. 5 and yes we
are on a Maven project. So let's go ahead
here. Now see your next root directoryt.
Actually I have to go up one. So there's a
I had to go to the directory with the
Maven POM in it. Again, I just checked
this out so sometimes it will.. that
doesn't go smooth as we'd like. But we're
going through. I need to set the JDK and
we will set that up. Now it is going to
take a second or two for before IntelliJ
to index the project.
So go ahead and add in the root
for Git. So take a quick look at his POM.
So he is on a build snapshot that could
be a problem. We need to take a look at that.
Sometimes when you're using the build
snapshot. So what is a snapshot? It is
that so I basically a build branch so
things are changing and they're actively.
It's not an official release. But so, he
is on the snapshot version so that
could be a problem. Something could be
changing underneath his feet and I may
or may not even see this in the same
error because of that. So it does have
that given and I just want to double
check a couple of things. So application.
properties. So it is saying the H2 console
is enabled, and let's see here. Now this
could be the problem right here.
So he's got what we have is com and
then his name and this is where the
Spring Boot application is. And what Spring Boot is
going to do by default is scan for
things in this package and below. So
let's go ahead and run this. I
suspect that's the problem but we'll go
ahead and prove this. So let's go ahead
and start this up. So now we are up and
running on an 8080.
Oh yeah Snagit window here and give me
one second here. Of course I had two
monitors going and my new Chrome tap
opened up in a new window. So let's go
ahead and connect. It does look like the
right URL and there are no tables
here. So that's the Users so that does
look correct.
So let's disconnect from this. Again, it
he does have the right URL in there. So
let's go ahead and refactor this. Come
back over to IntelliJ. We'll stop this
guy.
I'm pretty sure it's because of that.
And you can tell it to map it but it's
going to be a little easier just to
refactor this. So now that's there. And
just in case I'm going to. Maven do clean. That's just from experience,
when you do a refactoring like that, that
those old classes can get left behind
him though IntelliJ would probably take
care of it just fine. I'm just telling
everything to blow it away and not going
to update IntelliJ at this point in time.
So now let's go ahead and run this again.
So I'm just looking at the log output.
Nothing really jumped out at me there.
Now let's come back over here and do a
refresh, and connect, and then yeah now
our tables are showing up. So just
as I suspected,
so what's going to happen is a Spring
Boot is doing a lot of auto
configuration and it is going to scan
for entities in that package of the
Spring Boot web application and below.
Now of course you can override that with
a configuration but I just did a quick
refactoring here. So now the Spring Boot
auto configuration, auto scan is going to
be picking those up. It's important
because if, when you have something like
this where he had it with below this below
this below his own name there and the
Spring Boot application was in a
different package. So if you can tell it
to scan outside of that but know it's
important remembers all the auto
configuration magic inside of Spring
Boot is going to happen where your
Spring Boot application lives in that
package and below. So important low
refactoring here. So I can see that that
is a pretty common error that does trip
people up because you do have these
automatic package scans happening. But
they just happen in the package of the
Spring Boot application and below. It
doesn't happen everywhere. Otherwise you
could have literally tens of thousands
of classes in a larger project and you
don't want Spring
indexing all those insurgent annotations.
Be quite a lengthy startup
time. So I'm in do now. Let's go ahead and
come in to IntelliJ, Git commit
directory. And I will jump over to GitHub
and send my student a pull request that
so he can see the changes and I'll also
give them a full explanation. So yeah
when you do run into problems like this,
it is very helpful to have the full
working project inside of Git where I
can fork it and step through it like
this. Sometimes it gets a little
supporting but this one was pretty
straightforward. Hope you learned
something from this.